If you would all be so kind, and
we'll start with you, Eli, and we'll just
kinda work around in clockwise order. If you
could tell me your name, who you work
for, and anything else that you wish to
share with the kind people listening to this
podcast.
Hi. Yes. I'm Eli. My pronouns are they
and them, and I'm a developer advocate at
Scaleway,
which is a small European cloud provider. We've
got data centers all over Europe,
all your all your dev tooling, all that
good stuff.
And before that, I was developer advocate at
a small tooling company, developer tooling company.
And then before that, I've done bunch of
stuff, data engineering,
started out writing c straight out of university.
So spent some some time in in the
trenches of sort of real real programming.
Yeah. I like knitting and Tolkien and hanging
out with my cats and generally
being paid to be a professional nerd.
So that's that's me.
Hi, everyone. My name is Abdel.
That's my nickname. Actually, if you look me
up on LinkedIn, you will find probably my
long Arabic name, which a lot of people
have difficulties with, so I just go by
Abdel. It's easier for everyone.
I am a cloud developer advocate at Google.
I've been at Google for almost ten years
now. So I'm a cloud developer advocate focused
on Kubernetes
and service mesh and pretty much anything containers.
I cohost the Kubernetes podcast. Maybe some people
here are are listeners. If you have been
listening since October, I am one of the
annoying voices because we are two hosts of
it, actually.
The other host is my colleague, Kathleen Fields,
who lives in Seattle. So, yeah, I do
pretty much everything around containers
and Kubernetes.
My upbringing is kind of weird because I
did software engineering as a master's degree, but
I never really worked as software engineer. I
worked in data centers, which is kind of
a place where not that many people actually
work, I guess.
And my first job actually was in data
center back home in Morocco, and then I
moved to Google to join data center in
Belgium.
And then as I like to say, I've
been moving up the stack in terms of
structural layers. So all the way from hardcore
servers to virtual machines to containers to whatever
AI is gonna bring in the next ten
years. So
so, yeah, that's me. Awesome. Thank you. And
Neil? I'm Neil. I'm CEO and cofounder of
Fortainer.
I like to describe myself as an engineer
because to think otherwise would horrify me. I
have been twenty five years building,
breaking,
and fixing things.
VMware engineer,
IBM guy.
I dabbled a little bit with development. I
I am embarrassed to say it's Visual Basic,
though. So I don't know if it's if
that's actually development or not.
But started out with basic, so that that
that also shows my age.
And I like to make things easy. I
hate complexity.
I think complexity is the root of all
evil, and I like to make things easier
for people.
That's just my natural born hobby. Actual hobby
is is fishing and hiking for those that
know me. So I love being outdoors. Alright.
Thank you very much. So this is the
first episode of the Cloud Native Compass, and
we're gonna keep today's topics
broad as you're all aware. We're gonna kind
of take a look at a cross section
of the Cloud Native landscape and that being
clouds and containers and Kubernetes.
But I prepared,
three or four questions at each of those
categories. But, of course, Adrian, Anurag, and anyone
else who wants to join, if you have
any questions, please feel free to pop them
into the chat. And if you really want
to, feel free to raise your hand, and
we will promote you and invite you on
to ask your question live.
So we're gonna start with the first question,
which I know everyone's gonna love because it's
a topic that a lot of people find
frustrating
but important, and that is the cost of
cloud adoption.
So
based on my own experience of going to
events over the last kind of twelve months,
maybe broader,
I see that the the cost of their
cloud instances
or their hard their software services that they're
using on these cloud providers seems to be
growing and growing and becoming more and more
of a
challenge, especially in the macroeconomic climate right now
where costs are a big problem.
So I'm curious if this is something that
you're seeing with your own experience, your own
customers, your own partners, and if you have
any advice or best practices to help people
navigate this tricky situation. I can have a
comment. We have a lot of infrastructure in
the cloud. It's actually our entire QA environment.
We obviously have to spin up
Docker standalone environments, Docker swarm environments, no man
environments, Kubernetes clusters of multiple different versions. So
we we we support three versions back. And
so every single time we release a new
version of Plotainer, we've gotta spin up environments
and test something against it. So we've got
we've got environments that come and go frequently
throughout the day. So we we might spin
up a cluster as live for for an
hour while while some QA testing is, and
then it's pulled down again. And we do
this across
almost every cloud provider you can possibly imagine.
We currently support six cloud providers that we
test in QA again. So we've got we've
got instances everywhere.
That gives me a pretty good insight into
how much money each provider costs are relatively
the same thing, you know, because it's it's
always the same, environment that's set up across
the providers.
And it's eye watering how much money we
spend. And one of the things that I've
kind of figured out is if you have
a relatively consistent
workload,
like the CPU and RAM allocation is consistent
and you can right size your environments,
it's probably pretty good in the cloud. If
you've got environments that are very, very bursty,
and you would be able to benefit from
from oversubscribing
physical VMware hosts or Proximox hosts if you
wanna do things a bit cheaper. If you
can benefit from oversubscribing
and making sure that you can time slice,
it's it's probably
substantially cheaper. We're actually gonna be moving a
lot of our workloads
back from the cloud into a cloud bare
metal as a service provider running virtualization,
and we think it's it's gonna save us
quite a bit of money in that in
that landscape. So, you know, it definitely,
the cost differential between the top three and
everyone else, I think, is still large. There's
there's a large gap. You you pay a
premium for the top three versus everyone else.
Yet I think the capability
gap is narrowed. You know, previously, if you
if you if you wanted a really reliable
service, you went to one of the top
three. And if you wanted something a bit
more niche and more cost effective, you went
to went to anyone else.
I think that's definitely narrowed out a lot
now. You get some very, very reliable services
from DigitalOcean, LeanOut, Civo, you name them. You
get some very, very reliable services super cost
effectively now. So that's my my my views
on it.
Anyone else like to add anything there? My
my flippant answer was gonna be if you're
on Amazon, then you can always hire the
duckbill group. Get Corey Quinn in to come
and jot down your bill. Right? It does
make sense to me, though, that making
sure that you are buying exactly what you
need is is sort of is an answer.
Might even be the best answer. Like, that
that feels right. I I think early bit
me to it, but I I was about
to say there are people who built businesses
on top of this idea of cost optimization,
and is probably the best example of that.
Right? They help people optimize costs. And I
think
there are few factors that that determine,
like, how much you're gonna spend in the
cloud. And I'm I'm I'm I am in
my line of work seeing more and more
people kind of, like, caring about the cost.
There is if you have been to KubeCon
in Valencia last year, there is, an entire
trend around FinOps that have been starting around,
and, know, there are a bunch of booths
of companies doing basically financial optimization for companies.
So there are a few factors.
One factor is is and this is something
I've seen I've seen in my in my
experience is that that people just turn things
on and forget them. Right? So as they
go around to a cloud console, they turn
a feature on, they never look at it.
There is also what I call hidden costs.
Sometimes you would turn a feature on. I
I don't know. Azure virtual machines. But there
is an underlying login
that you are charged for, but you don't
see it. You have to go dig into
the documentation to understand how those logs are
built.
I have had this before with Google Cloud,
specifically customers coming to us, and they go,
well, our
login bill is much higher than everything else
we are spending money on. Right? And that's
because they're just writing logs, and logs cost
money.
And you can you can basically, anything that
is a hidden feature that gets turned on
automatically without you knowing,
that could be a problem.
As Neil said, like, the the the the
margins between
a row compute across the three premium cloud
providers is getting very narrow, and the the
other nonpremium cloud providers, if you want to
call them so, are getting also very close,
like DigitalOcean or VH.
They are getting they're they're starting to beat
AWS and Google Cloud on pricing. Right?
And so what what what I'm noticing on
my end is lot of what a lot
of cloud providers are doing, they are moving
toward kinda more added value services. Alright. Let's
instead of just selling you raw compute, we're
gonna give you, like, containers of service
so you don't have to worry about all
the underlying
complexity of the infrastructure.
There is one comment I want to to
to add, and I'll just stop here.
I think when we talk about costs, a
lot of times people like to compare apples
to apples where you say how much CPU
memory cost me on prem versus how much
it cost me in a in a cloud
provider, and they tend to forget the cost
of engineering. Right? When you are paying Google
Cloud to run your virtual machines, you're not
only paying for that virtual machine. You're paying
for all the engineering work that goes behind
it that makes the service reliable.
And of that engineering work, you would have
to do it yourself. It would if you
would hold the VM yourself. Right? So
if you start thinking about your engineers as
an investment center rather than a cost center,
then then it's entirely different discussion around cost
cost optimization. Right? Yeah. I think there's a
couple of things there.
One, you mentioned that there are products popping
up now, and I think that's that's very
true. We're seeing Terraform integrations that try and
tell you on a pull request what your
plan or the changes to your your infrastructure's
code is actually gonna cost you on a
rolling monthly basis, which is interesting. There's things
like KubeCost, which try to protect what a
Helm chart can cost you when you deploy
it in your cluster, which again is quite
interesting.
And I think something else that was interesting
there that you mentioned is, like, the the
understanding that you've got the operational cost versus
the capital. What is it? Capital expenditure and
operational expenditure.
So as a company, you have to make
the decision. Do you want to own hardware
and be an operator of hardware and provide
a service, or do you want to be
a little bit of a premium
and just use one of these cloud providers?
And I think these are a lot of
challenges that people need to make. Oh, I
was just gonna say that, you know, owning
your own hardware does come with its own
operating cost as well because who who's wearing
that
who's wearing the pager?
That's one of the things you get with
a cloud provider. Right? It's it's not not
you.
Definitely in a a production environment. I know
when I started writing dev or being a
dev, like, we had a cupboard that had
a rack in it. It had four servers
on it, and that was dev and staging
and QA and preprode.
And to us, like, it doesn't really require
much maintenance. If anything went wrong, you pull
the plug on it and turn it back
on and then and then, well, was barely
else. Forty minutes later, maybe you had a
working machine again. Who knows? But we're now
in a situation that we're probably engineered for
ourselves, and the cloud native predominantly means microservices.
Right? And running microservices
and a production lake environment, even if it
is in production, usually requires more than one
machine. With our model, if you could spin
up a bare metal server and a cupboard
or even just some
not a Raspberry Pi, but, know, you can
stick some novelty hardware into a cupboard and
deploy a binary to it. But with microservices,
that's not really an option anymore. It's like
we've engineered ourselves into this cost parity,
which I'm I'm sure there are pros and
cons too. But what what's people's thoughts there?
Like, if we made this mess ourselves?
Well, it's also just be careful. You don't
you don't do binary alternates. Right? So, yeah,
like I said, we we're moving to bare
metal as a service and a cloud provider.
So we we we we get we get
an entire server
in a managed data center from a provider
with high levels of SLA and Internet connectivity
and everything else. So we we just get
an x a console access to it. We
can install VMware on it or Proxmox, whatever
on it and and start putting our environment.
So, yes, we have to manage the hypervisor
layer as a cost saving, but we're not
worried about the data center or the server
or any of the connectivity requirements of it.
It's highly available. So that that there's actually
a nice halfway house as well in between
fully managed by by a cloud,
you know, hardly managed by a cloud or
self hosted. And, you know, I I don't
think I would ever
even consider reverting back to fully self hosted
now.
It's just it's just too too hard now,
you know, and there's there's no need.
But definitely,
being able to to have your own dedicated
hardware, being able to overcommit that hardware at
a ratio that that you're comfortable with,
that makes sense for your business, then then
that'd that that's definitely a viable option to
to save money, lots of money. Yeah. I
mean, there's quite a a public
migration right now happening with Hey, the email
company, and Basecamp,
where they're they've they've given up on the
cloud and said it's too expensive. And they
were saying cost, I think, was it, like,
3 plus million
per year to run their email service? And
they've went all in and buy their own
hardware and sticking it into a data stream
or in managing
that themselves. And you're right. I I I
could never imagine going back to that level
of of operational
complexity. I I I like the simplicity of
play. I like the fact that we can
burst up and burst down
based on what's happening. I mean,
the companies have predictable load to be able
to do that. Like, it just doesn't seem
like that's the case anymore.
Well, I have I have to say something
about this whole
base camp and hay situation. I mean, all
all respect to the person who wrote those
articles,
there is one thing I am not able
to understand is at that scale at $3,000,000
per year, they have a very powerful negotiation
power. Right? They're not paying premium prices. They're
not paying catalog prices, or they shouldn't be
paying catalog prices at at least. Right? If
you are a customer of a cloud provider
who whose bill is $50,000,
if you bring AWS or Google Cloud, they
will tell you that. They just go away.
We don't care. Right? But you're paying $3,000,000
per year, then you can sit down at
the table. And I've seen customers negotiating up
to 60% discounts on their own computes by
spending couple millions a year. Right? So I
I I read I read those articles. I
could not understand why the cost was substantial
and why they were complaining about it.
And, also, I if I was in their
shoes, I would not consider going back to
the
run my own server situation. And Neil said
something interesting. Like, bare metal server is a
thing, and it's it's kinda halfway between,
you know, fully managed and somehow
half managed, I would say.
So so I I don't like, the articles
that you're referring to, they were doing kind
of an apple to apple conversion. That's what
I always advocate against. Right? Like, just look
at the catalog prices of AWS and Google
Cloud and and Azure and say, like, oh,
see, this is expensive. I can run the
VM for half that price. That's not the
full story.
Yeah. I do wonder if at Scaleway, we
will see more people coming back to we
have elastic
metal service
because historically, that's been just steady. There is
steady consistent demand for those. So it'll be
interesting to see if more people adopt, you
know, your your approach, Neil, of mixing and
matching and finding the right tools for the
actual sort of more more well suited tools
for each job.
Alright. Well, based on where this conversation is
going
and based on what the next two questions
are, I'm gonna probably gonna ask them both
and just throw them out there and let
you tackle whichever one you want to. You
know? But the next question is,
again, from going to conferences and speaking to
people at the conference, I've seen a lot
more people adopt
cloud providers outside of the big three. Like,
you know, we have Azure, we have AWS,
and we have Google. But, you know, I
think what a lot of people are agreeing
with is that costs are cheaper when they
go to the smaller cloud providers.
They're also more targeted and seems to be
able to innovate in a certain space faster
than the major players. So that could be
a driving factor there, and I wanna kinda
touch on that. But you also both or
all three of you mentioned kind of hybrid
architectures. And if I think back to early
COVID and even before COVID,
there was a lot of buzz and talks
at KubeCon and other events where people were
talking about hybrid cloud and multi cloud. And
I'm not seeing that anymore either.
So I'm curious if you say that.
Yeah. So maybe you can share some thoughts
on are the smaller clouds an advantage, and
are we gonna see more adoption there? And
is there a hybrid play, a multi cloud
play that is disappearing, or maybe I'm just
not seeing it anymore?
Well, I'll do a tiny product picture, which
is that Scaleway does run a multi cloud
Kubernetes managed service.
So we have your control plane and everything,
lives on Scaleway hardware and architecture, and then
you can put your nodes wherever you like.
So we are definitely
we're hoping that the multi cloud isn't dying
as a concept.
I think it's something that you know, maybe
it will never be mainstream, but there will
be use cases for it. And I think
it should be easier for people to do.
Yeah. Hybrid
cloud, I think, is or or multi cloud,
whatever you wanna describe it there,
I think it's actually pretty important because it
does let you have the right cost for
the right application.
Like, why would you wanna run dev environments
on the top three and pay premium if
you don't need the high levels of service
availability and everything else that comes with the
top three that you just get and take
for granted? If you don't need that for
dev test QA staging, what do call it,
what you like,
then why would you run them there? You
might wanna run them somewhere that that's that's
substantially cheaper. That's one of the great things
about Kubernetes. Right? It's this this unifying
layer.
As long as you can deploy in Kubernetes,
you can deploy anywhere, and you're gonna get
relatively the same result.
Now I say I say relatively because,
you know, the the cloud providers like to
make you somewhat sticky, and so they're trying
to encourage you to use their authentication and
their logging and all their other stuff. And
if if you if if you buy into
that and go all in on Amazon's authentication,
you know, I am everything else, then it
makes it very difficult to then go and
use any other cloud provider. So as as
long as you have some way of,
you know, normalizing or or neutralizing
how how you authenticate users in the clusters,
how you handle RBAC, how you handle all
of the policies, everything else. How you do
all that
and don't don't use it from just one
one provider, then you can you can balance
your loads and have have the right the
right provider for the right workload. And I
think that's that's key. Otherwise, it makes it
very difficult.
That does require a pretty decent working knowledge
of which provider would be the best for
each workload.
Now if you're if you're conceiving a project
from scratch and you go, okay. I have
this I have this very high GPU usage
that workload that needs to happen.
You know, there's there's if you don't already
know off the top of your head where
do you want to run that, that's sort
of that's research time, I suppose. But then
that's you're saving money as a result. Result.
So
Well, just just just have two. High cost,
high SLA,
low cost, lower SLA, and just just balance
that way. Prod, nonprod. Just even start even
start something simple as that. Right? I'm I'm
gonna have to go a little bit against
the flow of what's have been said. I
I understand all these points. They're all very
valid points, but I think one of the
problems I have with hybrid cloud and multi
cloud discussion is it tends actually to always
focus on a single layer in a stack.
Like, what Ilya and Nain mentioned, it they
they just talked, oh, the Kubernetes, you can
do Kubernetes across cloud because it's unified API.
But in reality, no application lives in a
vacuum. You need the database. You need storage.
You need messaging queues. You need a bunch
of extra things. You're not gonna stick your
app on AWS and put your database on
Google Cloud. That doesn't make any sense. Right?
You're not gonna put your your application on
a container on DigitalOcean
and have your Kafka running on AWS. That
doesn't make any sense. So where where where
I see this this again, this is my
own opinion.
Where I see multi cloud valuable are few
of the following cases.
Some of the following cases, this is from
experience. First
is location or availability of the service. There
are certain industries where you are required by
law to be in a certain physical location.
And if your cloud provider doesn't have presence
in that physical location, then you will have
to choose another one. That's one valid use
case for multi cloud. Right?
Or maybe either physical location because regulations or
because you want to be close to the
user from a latency perspective. Right? So that's
one.
The second one is you you you touched
on this a little bit is added value
services. Like, if you want analytics
tooling,
probably Google Cloud is one of the best
places where you can have, like, a, like,
a, a data warehouse with BigQuery.
So you go to the cloud provider because
they have a service that they are the
only one offering, and they are doing it
very well. Right?
If you want cheap compute, you probably go
to AWS because they have been doing that
for a while. And they optimize even their
costs to be able to offer
VMs for cheaper than the other two. If
you want developer tooling, you go to to
Azure. They have a pretty good DevOps stack,
which a lot of developers like, especially if
you're in the dot net space. Right? So
that's another use case of multi cloud in
my opinion. This,
I would call it, world where people want
to run a single abstraction layer on top
of six cloud providers and have a single
API to talk to them and then have
the app automatically move from one cloud provider
to another because, you know, it's not that
that data center is down. That's just very
hard in practice to actually implement, I would
say. So I'm not dismissing that multi cloud
is valid.
I just think that people
think about it from a single
layer perspective in the entire stack, and that's
probably not the right way to do it,
but that's just my opinion.
I think you're all in more agreement than
you probably realize because I think, Abdul, what
you came out of from there is, like,
the production use case where, you know, I
don't wanna manage my own stateful databases and
production. So I am gonna use, like, Cloud
Spanner or Cloud SQL, etcetera.
But then
I think Eli and Neil were more of
the let's slice our environments across clouds. Like,
have dev and staging live somewhere else and
not really speak like, they're never gonna use
I'm not gonna pay for for Cloud Spanner
for my dev server or my staging server
because the cost it's just not cost effective.
But I probably would stick it on Scaleway
or Civo or Linode or any of these
other providers and maybe rely on Google Cloud
for my production workloads because I do wanna
who can to more of those value added
services.
And I think that's actually probably a pretty
good way for people to start leveraging
cost savings by moving those
lower priority environments or more ephemeral environments than
other
providers.
Plus it gets them more familiar with the
tooling as well. Maybe the infrastructure's code is
gonna improve because there's no retit in a
modular fashion where it can be
augmented with a different cloud provider at one
time. Who knows? Like, everybody's gonna do something
a little bit different. But I do think
these were all in
more or less agreement in some way there.
We agree? There
are also
open source,
you know, alternates for almost all of the
cloud provider services. So for non prod, you
can you can actually stand up an entire
Kube manifest with,
you know, your your database layers, your your
your your messaging layers, whatever else, and actually
make it make it stateful. So you can
do that.
Would you do that for production? Yeah. Probably
not. You'd probably want that that with a
really high SLA,
you know, specialist, you know, sort of run
databases amazingly well. So but yeah. Yeah. We're
seeing some really interesting stuff like CockroachDB
with their serverless
offering. It's it's really interesting. We've got Neon
dot tech, which is doing, like, this managed
serverless Postgres as well.
There's PlanetScale who do the test MySQL at
a cloud environment. So, like, if people are
already stored in their state and these other
services and just using cloud providers for compute,
maybe they have more flexibility to really understand
and
mitigate any cost explosion there too. So here
is one interesting fact for you guys. I
I don't know if you've seen the you
you're all aware of the last the the
the registry migration, the abstract registry migration for
Kubernetes that's happened over the last few months.
Right?
I've been
so we we we did, an episode on
the podcast about that, and we interviewed one
of the software engineers who led that effort.
And in researching that topic, I came across
a document
that was written by some people in the
CNCF
in which they analyzed like, they they they
just, you know, highlighted what's the problem statement
and how they are proposing to solve it.
And in that problem statement phase, they said
there was something around
they they analyzed the traffic that was going
toward the Google Container Registry, so khs.gsr.io,
the old one. And they realized that about
70% of the traffic going there was coming
from AWS IP addresses.
So so there's actually a lot of people
on AWS that are stand so these are
not
EKS. It's not it's not the AWS managed
Kubernetes pulling from our container registry or from
the the k x s one. It's people
standing their own Kubernetes cluster on top of
AWS using tools like KubeADM or KubeSpray because
KubeDM and KubeSpray uses
the old registry to pull images from. Right?
And that was a very interesting,
like, fact to learn. It's like, okay. There
are bunch of people doing their own Kubernetes
cluster on top of AWS, which is Why
would you? Why would you then? It's
so weird.
You already have the expertise. You want to
be lower in the abstraction sort of offerings.
I I don't know. There must there must
be significant use cases for it if they're
seeing that much Did I run my own?
And so, actually, the migration toward the new
registry was driven by this because the the
the project the Kubernetes project used Google Cloud
to host the artifacts and host the CICD
pipelines, etcetera, etcetera. But they realized that out
of the $35,000,000
that Google Cloud was giving them every year
to pay for everything, they were paying 50%
of it on egress costs. That's all the
image pools going toward the different cloud provider.
Right? So the new registry, if you look
at the details of the implementation, it's just
a very simple proxy that forwards you toward
either AWS or to Google Cloud based on
where where you're coming from.
So they're actually hosting images in both cloud
providers
so that they can cut cut on the
egress cost.
That's so clever.
That's really funny. I had good idea.
Yeah. It's it's it's it was a very
interesting, like like, realization. Like, 70% egress cost
going towards AWS, which was like, okay. Sure.
But I'm not sure people doing that.
Well, I think this gives us a nice
segue into our next topic because
registries
are expensive,
and people that operate them may wanna register
costs. And a very notable company made some
decisions lately that kind of angered the cloud
native community. And, of course, I'm talking about
Docker
who kinda made themselves a villain when they
announced that they were
deprecating,
removing, deleting, whatever they were doing, the free
plan, which meant that a lot of people
who host their container images on the Docker
Hub were told that within was it thirty
days or ninety days? I don't remember exactly.
Their images were gonna be deleted. Now they've
resented it. They said, okay. We're we're gonna
migrate people to open source programs, and we're
gonna give I think there is some sort
of free plan now, but do we forgive
them, or have they broken their trust one
too many times now? I think there's definitely
gonna be fear because
if you can just change a service with
only thirty days notice, what else can you
change? It it is the price for other
services gonna be 10 times this next week
because they choose that they need to change
it. So there's there's definitely gonna be fear
as a result.
You know, history often repeats. So if that
is if that is becoming a
behavioral trend
to do these kind of things,
then I think there'll be fear for what
will happen again in the future. Most
most providers have EULAs that say, we actually
reserve the right to change us at any
time without without any warning,
and that's part of their their standard agreement.
So I think there's gonna be fear.
I don't know whether there's much more impacts,
but if you can think back when they
changed the licensing for Docker desktop, and it
was a huge uproar on that. But Yeah.
They make they they're making millions
from Docker desktop licensing. So did it have
that much of a negative effect on their
business? The inverse, it had a massive positive
effect on their business by making that change.
So I don't it it's hard there. At
the end of the day,
if you if you're an open source entity,
you have to be commercially viable to to
continue. They have to find ways to monetize
and, you know, could could could could have
been, you know, come to better? Absolutely.
I think this is where I struggle. Right?
You know, I think Docker
changed the game for everybody in this community.
Right? We all have a lot of respect
for Docker and defend the team and what
they've done. We want Docker to succeed.
But like you said, it's not the first
time they've violated their trust. Like and and
they've done it so
catastrophically
through very poor communication, not really
bringing people along with them with the changes
in, hey. This is why we're doing this
thing and this is what we need to
to keep our business alive.
They've just came out with a big delete
hammer, the big sledgehammer. Went, sorry. It's going
away now.
You know, in the Docker desktop one was
another one. We've seen so many alternatives pop
up now from Rancher desktop to Podman desktop
to Colima
and all this other tooling trying to get
people alternatives.
Even recently, Orbstack released the product as well
to kinda compete with this.
I I don't know where I am on
the trust radar here. I
I still want Docker to succeed, but I'm
not pushing any more images to Docker Hub.
Well, we we we just we just pay
the money and
a a Docker verified publisher because, you know,
we get immense value from their technology,
and it just feels
like it's a moral obligation
to to help them as a company succeed
and grow and keep keep creating the technology
that's that's changing the game. You know, everybody
relies on the Mobi project that's almost entirely
funded, you know, by by Docker, and that
and that's the effort. It
just it just felt like the right thing
to do. It's interesting.
I don't know if you saw Morentis when
they started monetizing Lens. They they they went
through the same kind of thing that Docker
did with desktop, and they also semi surprised
the industry and said, hey. By the way,
you know how how it's open source? Yeah.
It's not really. The the the version we
publish is actually our closed source version, so
the license changed.
And there's there's also equally,
you know, strong backlash, and that's why now
this OpenLens came out of came out of
nowhere. So it it's kind of you gotta
be super careful monetizing open source and do
it, you know, very, very gracefully, gently,
and transparently.
I mean, is OpenCourse still a feasible business
model for OpenCourse?
That's what we are. I think there's different
there's ways and ways of doing OpenCourse. Right?
I mean, when if you OpenCourse part of
your your business logic sort of thing, do
you do you accept pull requests from
people outside of your organization, or is it
publishing
sort of broadcasting rather than accepting incoming
contributions?
So for us for for us, we actually
accept PRs into our our Portainer c version.
We we we got two two code bases,
Community Edition and Business Edition.
They're they're they're linked behind the scenes, but
we accept PRs against the c edition, and
then we will we we will, ourselves, backport
it to business edition if we so want.
So, yeah, we absolutely do. Right. So and
then if you so want, so there would
be PRs in the community edition that are
not present potentially in the business edition. Do
you then see those two things diverging? And
at what point does what's open no longer
match what's in the core as it were?
So I use so so if if we
so want, they're probably a little bit too
openly. Everything is currently and CE is in
business edition. In the future I ask is
because my previous company ran on the exact
same model, but we didn't really find ourselves
accepting PRs.
I would
I would accept PRs all day every day.
It it it makes the product better,
and and why why would I not? If
if someone raises a PR against our open
source product that competes against the business product,
I'd still I'll I'll still consider and accept
it. All I'd say is then, obviously, there's
not enough value add for that particular feature
in the business edition, and we we need
we need to be more creative and to
come up with with with a new value
add.
I think that's what makes a very healthy
open source
variant
is that you don't make it a walled
garden and close, and you control it. It
has to be open. And if it's not
open, then it's it's it is an open
source. I I I would agree. Yeah. I
think that this whole
Docker
mishandling communication in the last one, and it
has happened a couple of times, and it
happened to other companies. Redisyn was one of
them when they changed the licensing a few
years back. It happened to a bunch of
other companies. It's always reminds me of these
quotes of, like, this is why we cannot
have nice things.
It just that's basically as a community,
we are
entitled to free stuff. We just think
that whatever we use is free and should
remain free forever. Right?
And when
a business goes like, oh, no. No. No.
No, folks. This is not gonna be free
because we have to make money on this.
We are paying people and offices and, you
know, engineers and everything like that. Then everybody
goes goes crazy. And forget the fact that,
well, you're probably
using stuff for free, and you're probably not
even contributing to them. Right?
So
it's a very hard thing to balance. Like
like like like, balancing open source with commercial
is very difficult. I think that the last
one the last Docker announcement was probably more
a case of mishandling communication than anything else.
Right? One of the things I was thinking
about as that whole situation was kinda unfolding
is
as a community, if we think that there
are a bench of stuff, containers, for example,
that are important. Like, one of the person
who was very vocal about the Docker change
was Alexi, the OpenFast founder. He wrote, like,
a bunch of articles about it, etcetera. And
for me, I was thinking, like, why don't
we, as a community,
use the same model of the CNCF in
terms of open governance
and decide, okay. All these open source projects
that are important enough for everybody
will be hosted by an independent entity and
paid for by everybody. Right? So why don't
we have
a CNCF equivalent or CNCF themselves that manage
and runs a version of Docker Hub that
is free to use for everybody who wants
to use it, but somehow everybody have to
contribute to it either financially or through through
your contributions.
Right? And this is probably a farfetched idea.
It would take time to unfold, and I'm
I'm not sure even it will happen. But
I just we tend to forget that relying
on a single provider is never a good
idea anyway. Right? I can give you an
example actually of a project I worked on,
which was even funnier than this. I'm gonna
So there is a database called Arrow Aerospace
something
that's like an in memory database, very popular,
that one of my customers was using. And
they were using a version of it which
has a commercial license, but the free edition
allows you to run up to, like, 32
nodes cluster. Right? And you combine them in
a single, you know, cluster. And
the company behind came up with the new
version, and they said, okay. In the new
version, the open source edition, you can only
run four nodes clusters. And if you want
to run more than four nodes, then you
have to pay for it. The that company,
that customer I was working with, they're already
running at max. They were already running 32
nodes. And what's even worse is that that
company k said, okay. We're releasing version four,
and three months from now, we're deleting the
binaries for version three from our repositories.
So my customer ended up dumping the binaries
for version three and putting them in a
Dropbox. So they can see they cannot
they they have the binaries going forward. Right?
So it's I don't know. It's very difficult.
I I also don't know how to feel
about this whole thing. I just feel you
are breaching the trust of your community when
you do a sudden change and you don't
communicate it properly,
and and you don't communicate the intent behind
it, which is very important. Right?
Yeah. I think
when you're having these difficult discussions,
you always have to start with why the
decision has been made, and I don't think
Tucker did that. Like, say, Tucker says, we
will not be in business in twelve, twenty
four, thirty six months because here's the costs
of running Docker's hubs free
tier,
and it's not feasible.
People will go, oh, alright. Okay. We didn't
owe it. That's that much. And maybe they'll
have a bit more empathy for the company,
but the communication didn't come across that way.
And, also, we're a very entitled bunch. Right?
Developers.
Oh, you gave me this thing for free?
Oh, cool. I'll I'll use it. I'll use
it. I'll it. Oh, you're taking it away.
I hate you so much. I mean, like
and I've seen lots of people move to
GHCR. Like, GitHub's container registry seems to just
become in the new default because it's where
all our code lives.
But how long are they gonna run that
for free? Exactly. Do we have a guarantee
that Microsoft ten years from now, they're gonna
go like, okay. GitHub is
not free anymore. Right?
And we're back to, you know, have a
server in your basement and surf surf all
your own containers images yourself, I guess.
Pretty much.
Alright. Let's let's see something positive about Docker.
I'm I'm just really excited by their Wasm
announcements recently.
I love that they're opening up hybrid architectures
with WebAssembly and containers side by side. And
the fact that I can do this with
kind of Docker image pool and OCI artifacts,
but not only that, the enhanced support for
Docker Compose where I can run WebAssembly binaries
as services speaking to a Postgres database running
in a container and everything works together cohesively.
And I think this is really exciting for
WebAssembly
and for Docker. So I'm curious if anyone
has any any thoughts of the clip of
it. Do they like it? Do they not
like it? Feel free to share. So for
edge use cases, I think it's I think
it's quite amazing. The
there's still a real problem at the true
edge, and I'm talking around the
industrial edge
where you've got micro
micro devices,
which are
you know, they they are they are computers.
They have an arm 32 CPU.
They've got a gig of RAM.
And,
really, your only choice today
for running
containers at that type of edge device is
Docker. Everyone everyone talks a great story about
Kubernetes at the edge. Not
at that edge.
No no nowhere near.
And so
if your only option is to run full
fat containers on that device,
still,
a slow ARM 32 CPU and one gig
of RAM only goes so far. And so
the more efficiency that you can you can
get out of it,
the the faster, I think, we're going to
see the adoption of things like industry four
because, yeah, industry invest in technology, and they
they expect their technology last ten plus years.
They're not gonna go refresh their entire,
you know, hardware estate overnight because
this they they they wanna do containers. They
wanna find a way to repurpose what's there,
and it's old and slow.
So I think WASM at that edge is
gonna be amazing because it get it actually
gets so much more efficiency or it's so
much more efficient way of delivering applications at
that edge. In the in the data center,
I'm I'm not convinced. But That's that's an
interesting take.
I think I I see I see, actually,
there is quite a lot of movements across
the major cloud providers to start supporting
Wasm for serverless
stuff. So Wasm mass functions or Wasm as,
you know, for container service type platforms,
which you can do today, I guess, like,
with the with the Docker support for Wasm.
You could basically write a Wasm module and
run it inside Docker container. And if your
cloud provider allows you to run Docker containers
on top of the platform, it would just
work. Right? I think for functions, I see
a value,
especially that basically WASM
programs or libraries are very fast to start.
And for specific specifically functions of service,
that have always been a problem, the startup
time or the cold start time or whatever
you want to call it. Right?
So if wasn't can solve that by giving
you a fast to start binary, that's probably
a good place for it to be. Right?
But but, yes, I I think I have
to agree with you in the sense that
I don't see it as something where
five five years from now, everybody will say,
okay. Right. We're just gonna rewrite all our.
That's probably not gonna happen.
So the other one probably is this. The
sandboxing aspect of Wasm is a very competing
feature to a lot of companies that allow
you to run third party code on their
platform, like cloud providers with functions and stuff
like that. Right? Like, as a cloud provider,
you should inherently not trust people shipping
code and running it on top of your
infrastructure.
And the more you can sandbox that code
away from other customers running on the same
host, the better it is. And Wasm has
a very good sandboxing
environment. Right? So, yeah, that's that's my take
on it. I I think it's gonna we'll
have to wait. This this is gonna be
this is gonna unfold over the next five
to ten years.
Yeah. I I wanna quantify some of the
things you mentioned there. So,
Cloudflare announced,
their workers' project, which is their, functions as
a serverless serverless kind of workload thing, supports
WebAssembly workloads. They announced that, like, two weeks
ago, which is cool. And they have 256
Edge locations. I know Neil's gonna be like,
that's not edge, but, you know, they they
have these locations out there
for people to run these workloads. And as
far as quantifying it, WebAssembly
run times binaries could be started in microseconds
compared to, like, a container, which we're talking,
what, five hundred milliseconds probably to start a
container set the sandbox up, especially in a
Kubernetes environment. It's a little bit slower.
And I think that's quite interesting. But but
there's also the data aspect. It's like with
container runtimes, have to pull the image, and
container images are not small. Right? Yes. We
have container images on the megs, but we've
all seen them tens of megs, hundreds of
megs, and even gigs of container images.
So even the pool time on that can
be slow.
Whereas WebAssembly
binaries, again, are very, very small. Typically, four
to eight meg depending on the complexity of
the application. Of course, your mileage may vary.
I'm not saying all of them are. But
I think at those numbers, that is a
really compelling
story for developers who wanna do things that
way. And then the sandbox is just the
kind of cherry on the top. Right? It's
like you get all of those benefits without
having to deal with Linux c groups, without
having to worry about the architecture of the
application.
Yeah. Go cross compiles, but am I cross
compiling for arms? Am I cross compiling for
x a h six? Like, these are all
concerns that I hope we don't need to
worry about.
And I I do actually agree. I don't
think we're all gonna be writing WebAssembly in
five years, but I do think we'll be
writing a mix of WebAssembly complemented with container
based workloads.
Another another space where I am seeing WebAssembly
also growing very fast is
I don't know how much you are familiar
with Invoice, the the proxy.
Mhmm. Invoice supports WebAssembly as as a filter.
So you can Invoice is a very extendable
proxy, and you can,
like, add filters to it, and those filters
can be written in Lua or in WebAssembly.
Right? And with that, you can actually implement
a lot of complex logic at the filter
level so you can do authentication, authorization, and
batch of extra things, rate limiting, for example,
stuff like that. And Envoy,
although it started with Lyft, it is being
adopted.
We are changing all our load balances to
be Envoy based at Google. I I know
at least one company, Spotify. I know that
they they are running Envoy as their edge
proxy. They're not doing with assembly today, but
they're thinking about it. So
and I think probably Neil would now agree
with with this. I I still think this
is an edge case where you're running a
proxy at the edge of your network and
pushing a bunch of that logic that you're
doing in the back end to the proxy
layer.
You know, SSL termination is the something we've
been doing for a while, but, like, authentication
authorization, blah blah, closer to the user
is is is of value. Right? And I
think the reason why Envoy and WASM are
becoming interesting is because all the other proxies
that exist for a while have not been
innovating that much. Like, NGINX did not change
much in the last ten, fifteen years. HAProxy
did not change much in the last ten,
fifteen years. Right? They probably support HTTP too,
but, like, who cares? Right? So so
so, yeah, I I I I see that
as another kind of area that would be
interesting to look at or to keep an
eye on.
Yeah. I think WebAssembly is an extensibility model.
It's definitely on the rise too. Like you
said, with with Envoy,
Red Panda has, like, a built in WebAssembly
runtime for the stream transformations on events going
to the system.
And there's a really cool framework that I
don't remember the name, and I'm not gonna
remember it. But it's like a desktop extension
model. So if you write desktop apps, you
can now write WebAssembly modules that get hooked
into it, and it makes it run on
Mac, Linux, and Windows without having to worry
about anything else. I think that's quite a
interesting use case too.
Alright.
We are
very quickly running out of time. So unless
everybody would like to share more on WebAssembly,
I'm gonna suggest that we move on to
our final topic for today, which is Kubernetes.
Any
last words on WebAssembly? Kubernetes, it is.
Kubernetes.
Awesome. Well,
I'll throw this one over to you, Adele,
since you've already mentioned it. But very recently,
register change as part of Kubernetes
is a a big deal. People need to
know well, I guess it's not as important
anymore because of the automatic redirect, but there's
still things people need to know. So maybe
you could share a little bit on what's
happening and what's important for people to take
away. Yeah. So a little bit of context.
Kubernetes was up to
1.26,
which was released December.
They were pushing all their images to k8s.gcr.io.
So GCR stands for Google Container Container
Registry,
which is a Google managed version of Docker
Hub, essentially, or Docker registry.
And
k8s.gcr.i0
was a subdomain
that Google created specifically for Kubernetes. Right? It
was kind of like its own instance. It
did not share infrastructure with the rest of
the container registry space.
So the creates, like, a subdomain, and they
just give it to the community. And, you
know, and then, you know, I talked about
this earlier. They realized they were running out
of money because, you know, spending way too
much money on egress.
So they decided to do the migration. And
the migration today or the migration essentially was
we're gonna move from kxs.register.i0
to word registry dot Kubernetes or dot dot
k x s dot I o, which is
essentially
if you care care about the implementation detail,
it's a proxy running on top of Cloud
Run, which does the redirection. It's a very
low low
low weight Go binary. The code is open
source. You can read it. And, essentially, what
it does, it receives the request. It looks
at the IP address, and it uses a
Go package,
which which which can give you the list
of known IP addresses that AWS use. So
if your traffic is coming if request is
coming from AWS,
it forwards toward the container registry of AWS.
Right? So the images are still technically mirrored
across both Google Cloud and AWS,
and maybe they are planning to add more
cloud cloud providers later. What's happened basically is
AWS came to the Kubernetes community, and they
said, we're gonna give you money
to be able to host stuff on AWS.
Right? And maybe later, more more cloud providers
will chime in, and they would be able
to do the same. But, essentially, now when
when Kubernetes is built, they will
push all the artifacts toward old cloud providers.
They're mirroring them on Google Cloud and AWS
and maybe Azure in the future. And then
this proxy, this little Go binary,
just forwards depends on which the IP where
the IP is coming from. Right? And that's
gonna help a lot with pull time. So
if you're on AWS and you're pulling for
the new Container Registry, you will see a
significant improvement
in terms of the pull pull speed. Right?
And, yeah, you just reduce the cost on
a single cloud provider and kinda distribute across
multiple cloud providers. So that's the context.
Do you know what that is? That's multi
cloud.
That's multi cloud. Yeah. That's actually very helpful.
It is. I was waiting
was waiting for somebody to make a comment.
And and, actually, you know what it is,
to be honest with you? It's basically what
we used to do with Linux packages. It's
mirrored Linux packages across multiple servers. Right? It
used to be a long time. I I
when I was living in Morocco, I did
establish a mirror for APT.
In Morocco, I bought a bunch of servers,
and we established we we we we we
up set up a mirror for APT packages.
That's essentially what this is, except it's done
by the community, not by a bunch of
volunteers. Right? How is it not just a
CDN? It is a CDN. A problem.
Is a CDN. I'm I'm surprised that that
Google just just didn't host all images on
a CDN.
Well, I think that the reason is because
containers
require a very specific implementation of the registry
itself. Right? The registry API is very specific.
It's not like it's not like an a
picture or like a CSS file that you
can just put on an HTTP server. That's
due to the client implementation of the kubelet
on Kubernetes because the kubelet is not just
doing an HTTP pull request. It's using
the the Docker registry client's library to pull
the image. Right? But I would agree with
you. If if it was if images could
be pulled through
a standard HTTP request, then what's what why
are we bothering with this? We could just
implement it on top of legacy. Yeah. Right?
Alright. Well, thank you for sharing all that.
So we got a couple of questions left.
So, Adrian, everyone else in the chat, if
you wanna ask any questions before we finish,
drop them into the comments, and we'll move
on to developer portals.
So a trend that I've seen through reviewing
CFPs
for a couple of conferences and, again, speaking
to people at conferences is that Backstage has
really kicked off this new I I don't
wanna use the word movement, but, you know,
this initiative where teams feel like they need
to have developer portals that get them a
gateway into their infrastructure, their services, their projects.
Like and I'm curious. Is this something that
you guys are seeing again with your own
customers and partners? Do you use yourself? And
what is the value proposition that people are
looking for here? Is it purely developer experience,
or is it something else that I'm missing?
Well, I'm still unclear on the difference between
a developer portal and, like, a console view
for your
what you're doing with your cloud provider.
Is this for the things that you've got
on on-site or what sort of agnostic to
where the things are actually running? Or Yeah.
So the back speech, just an example, is
kind of used to give you, like, a
service catalog. So as a developer team deploying
microservices,
it'll actually show you the all the services,
how they interact with each other, the message
formats,
and visual overviews.
And we're seeing extensions now where it can
hook into Kubernetes and give you some limited
capabilities there. It can hook in to your
cloud provider and show you I'm models and
our back rails and a whole bunch of
other stuff. So Gotcha. We're we're seeing this
kind of DX based portal experience trying to
make developer teams more efficient. I'm not sure
if that's the value add, but, yeah, Neil,
you were gonna say something there too. Yeah.
I was gonna say, as as Kubernetes
or containers
get more and more and more mainstream,
you're getting into the realm of web devs,
front end developers.
In all honesty, those people who who know
how to use those developers who know how
to how to deploy and manage applications on
Kubernetes are probably full stack, and now now
they're extra full stack in order to be
able to do that as well. But there
is a huge proportion of the developer community
who probably see themselves as front end devs
or web devs, and they they may or
may not have the skills to be able
to do infrastructure tasks. And so there is
definitely a need for an abstraction where you
say, I just wanna take my code, and
and I wanna deploy my code. Off you
go. And that's where I think these kind
of dev platforms will shine is is being
able to engage
with the dev in a language the dev
speaks, which is which is code, and being
able to to to get them and and
or have a bunch of free can templates
available. They can just click to deploy, and
they get their server up. They can then
go and and push their code into. I
I think it's critical
as as we get more mainstream, we get
into more emerging markets where where the level
where where there might be more more of
a skills delta.
I think it's I think I think it's
just a just a a sign of maturity
of Kubernetes.
Alright. Can we try an experiment? Are you
happy to try an experiment?
You smile. I'll take it. Alright. There was
a report recently that said GitHub just crossed
a hundred million monthly active users. So let's
pretend
that this is science and there's a hundred
million developers out there in the world. So
in the chat box and don't hit return
until I ask ourselves to hit return. Type
how many developers you think have used a
kube control command. And the audience could feel
free to do this too.
But don't hit return. Checkbox.
Yeah. But just type a number, and I'm
I'm gonna count to three. And on three,
we can all hit return.
I can't even find the checkbox.
At the bottom, there should be, like, there's
a timer saying we've been live for fifty
six fifty eight minutes, and then there's a
little square for chat. So in the chat
box, type a number of how many developers
that is a hundred million
have used a cube control command, and we'll
all hit return at the same time. Does
everyone got a number?
I do. Alright. So on three.
One,
two, three.
Wow. We all
went very different.
So I said 500,000,
Eli's five thousand,
Neil went in at 10 mil, and Abdul
said every developer has run a cube control
command. Yeah.
I mean, we'll never know, but I I
just
you know, KubeCon has tens as a sellout
event at 10,000 people going to to Amsterdam.
As a general rule of thumb, when I
talk about developers that go to user groups
and conferences, I always say if you go
to these things, then you're in, like, a
five to 10% bubble of people that really
wanna push their knowledge and their careers and
other things. But I've always made that number
up, so I I really have no idea.
Right. So I mean, it's extremely low because
I think, well, I don't know. We're practitioners
of a thing always think the thing is
more widespread than it actually is. How many
people on GitHub are just using it to
host, like, little personal website that they've made
or But now you're claiming 50%
of the attendees at KubeCon have never run
a Kube control command.
Yeah.
But if we're doing prices right, we'll know.
Might be right. Yeah. I I mean, probably.
I don't know. We could sample it when
I'm there. Maybe I'll just run around with
a pen and paper and say, have you
run a Kube control command and see how
many people I can get to answer it?
I guess I guess that's probably you are
right in the sense that there are people
there are probably people using Kubernetes without running
the kubectl command. Right? Select the dashboard. If
you deploy the Kubernetes dashboard, you don't need
the command line. Can just deploy things from
the dashboard. So there are probably people who
are using Kubernetes, but they're not using the
command line. They're just using some sort of
high level of structure there. But is Kubernetes
still not I mean, it's growing.
We can see that through the CNCF. Can
see that sort of projects, open source contributions,
so people at conferences.
But it's it's still niche. Right? Like, arbitrary
number. 90% of people that write code are
probably deploying to something that's not Kubernetes still.
Is that right? Is that wrong? Kubernetes, maybe.
Containers, I would say, is more mainstream.
I just just this last weekend, I was
walking down a random street in Berlin,
and there was, you know, those big digital
signboards.
And so we're walking down the street, and
there's there's 20 digital sign boards in a
row each selling. And as I walk past
one, I'm like, oh my god. That's that's
Docker desktop.
And and, basically, the the sign board had
crashed, and in the screen was Docker desktop.
And with with the the the stack for
the software, it's crashed. And so and I'm
like, okay. Cool. You just never know where
where you're gonna where you're actually gonna gonna
come across containers.
So I think I think I think containers
have far more adoption
than Kubernetes,
but Kubernetes adoption is definitely is definitely rising.
Yeah. I'd be curious to pay attention, you
know, GitHub and Stack Overflow do annual reports
where they ask a whole bunch of questions.
And I haven't checked, so I don't know.
But maybe containers and Kubernetes adoption is in
there, and there are numbers. So I'll see
if I can find them and and share
them with people afterwards.
But fun experiment to see. This is complete
for wildly different guesses, but I'll take I'd
be very interested to see the results if
you do a straw poll of running around
KubeCon and asking people, have you actually run
KubeControl?
I mean, of course, I'm gonna do it.
I'm gonna film it at the same time.
So, yeah, it's gonna happen.
To to be honest, asking it in an
echo chamber,
you you you might get a very different
result than across some more broad spectrum sample.
So if you go go to an actual
dev forum. Yeah. I was about to say
that I think it would be more more
interesting to to go to a conference which
is not cloud native focused. So one of
the conferences I want to go to next
year is called Scale, South California Linux Expo.
It takes place in Sacramento, I think, every
year. And my cohost was there and interviewed
some people for the podcast.
And the from the interviews I listened to,
there was, like, a widely different spectrum of
what people are interested in. Right?
It's like a totally different population. They are
not in containers.
Like, some of them, say, oh, we heard
about this. They called Kubernetes, and we're thinking
about looking at it, but they're still in,
you know, hardcore Linux, low level kernel stuff.
So and there is there is actually an
article that I've read a long time ago.
I have to find dig it up and
find it.
I think it was called Shadow Developers,
and it I don't even remember who wrote
it. It was this this person who said,
like like, we people who are on the
Internet, we're only exposed to a certain population
of developers. There are a bunch of like,
your developer sitting in a, like, a, like,
a town hall of a city of, I
don't know, country in The UK
writing
visual basic code on top of, you know,
of, like, the Microsoft Access databases. That's a
developer as well. Right? Are they gonna fill
in a Stack Overflow survey? Probably not. Are
they gonna go a conference? Probably not. It's
Yeah. I mean, it's it's something we come
up against in DevRel. Right? It's like you
can only reach the people who are who
you know about, and then there's all this
sort of yeah. Like like, dark matter. Where
are all the people who aren't on the
Internet, who aren't terminally online?
Alright. We have gone a little bit over
that. I just wanna check. Does anyone have
a hard stop, or are you okay to
answer one more question? And we'll finish up
for today. I'm I'm good to go. I'm
good to keep going, brother. Well, I think
keep going as well. Yeah. I mean, I
think, given
everything that we see on Twitter these days
with open API,
open AI, and chat GPT that we should
talk about the way that that may influence
our little niche Kubernetes and Docker and container
bubble and the way that we work.
And specifically calling out Alex Jones from Canonical's
project of KHJPT,
which hooks into, like, the Kubernetes event log
and auto log to tell you when things
are wrong with your cluster and tell you
how to remediate them.
Is this something we're gonna see more of,
and is it gonna take all our jobs?
Which is hyperbole. Awesome.
Gonna ask awesome.
It's it's
it's very, very cool. Yeah. Triaging is one
of the one of the things that and
and let's be honest, 90% of us see
an error, copy paste it into Stack Overflow,
and and look for the answer anyway. So
that that this is just just automating that
loop. And I like that we've now got
to the stage where we've written software so
complex
that we need to write more software to
understand it. You know? We we we are
you know, I don't think that our jobs
are at risk because you ask chat GPT
anything about, you know, real facts and it
spews you complete nonsense. But it's certain tasks
like that, I think it could be really,
really useful. So I also say that
whilst it still has quite a lag in
its training,
if you ask it questions about Kubernetes one
dot 26, do you think it's gonna better
help you? It maybe not. Yeah. Because it's
it's it's got that cut off. So it
it as long as it's a bug that
existed
back when it was trained,
it'll help you. I'm just I'm not I'm
not sure. I mean, I'm I'm not that
smart enough to understand, you know, if if
it can determine things that that that's newer,
bugs that are newer than what it was
trained on. I don't know how it handles.
So you you have to give it all
the context. That's what I I've seen is
that people are are feeding the
one twenty six manifest as examples and then
asking the questions based on it. And it
does seem to have a weird ability to
understand what's happening and answer
questions. Like, it it could be retrained with
modern data if you're willing to give it
the modern data. Do you think this is
something you would hook into retainer?
I am all about making things easier for
our users. So if this was a way
to make things easier,
we actually had a discussion.
We we used to include Compose with a
k in Protainer. So you you could take
a Docker Compose file, and we we would
auto deploy that against Kubernetes.
We we had to pull it out because
it was full of CVEs.
If this was a way to bring back
that type of capability
where someone could could put a put you
know, give container Compose file, we we asked
chat GBT to convert it, and then they
gave us back a manifest so we could
then go direct deploy.
I'll take that. Cool. Yeah. That'll be cool.
So so, absolutely, if if if we can
do if we we can use it to
improve the service that we deliver to our
users, I'm all over it. Yeah. I also
wonder, like, from the Google and Skillway point
of view, can we, like, have it have
an understanding of all the resources we have
and then give us cost optimizations
or even just remind you that you've had
an instance running that you're not using anymore?
Like, hey. The traffic on this virtual machine
hasn't really moved a needle in ten days.
Do you wanna shut it down? Like, are
we gonna see more stuff like this? Our
our most of our recommendation
tips that we have in the Google Cloud
Console are actually ML based. They're not bot
based. They're not based on. Like, right now,
if you log in to the Google Cloud
Console, there will be some recommendation in your
virtual machine interface to say, hey. You haven't
used this virtual machine for a while. Oh,
wow.
So that's actually ML based. And another way
another place where we are using a machine
learning based model is we have a software
called Cloud Armor, which is like a web
application firewall. It's a WAF. You can attach
it to a cloud load balancer, and then
it can do a bunch of things like
XSS,
like a cross site scripting detection,
SQL injection, etcetera.
But one of the things it does is
something called predictive traffic analysis.
So, basically, when you turn that on, it
creates a base model for your traffic on
your load balancer.
And if it sees something weird, it's gonna
actually notify you and say, hey. We're seeing
these IP addresses
are potentially gonna be harmful. And you can
turn it on to either create a firewall
rule to block those IP addresses automatically or
just give you a recommendation
and tell you, please apply this policy to
block those IP addresses. And last year, that
feature was used by one of the customers,
and it helped them block the largest DDoS
attack known to human in history. It was,
like, 70 47,000,000
requests or something like that. So they didn't
they didn't have the automatic feature. They just
had the recommendation feature, but somebody caught that
early and managed to apply the policy to,
you know, to prevent issues.
So in these kind of cases, I do
see
value for using machine learning based, whether they
are or
BART or something else,
but something that could
that is clever enough
to see what your base usage is and
can detect deviations.
Right? But this is not new to ChargeGPT.
This is like deviation detection machine learning is
a very old problem. Right? So ChargeGPT
as is today
being useful for for us with what we
do today, I'm very skeptical, but that's just
me. Yeah. I sort of think of chat
with GPT as it's almost like a toy
or like a demo of, like, the under
the technology, the ML technology in targeted
ways. Like, exactly as you say, like, very
specific targeted ways that's trained for this one
purpose,
I think have an enormous potential.
I'm thinking about, like, observability,
like, price prediction, all of these things, but
it may not be, like, a chat GPT
in particular. It may be something more specifically
purpose built.
Alright. Awesome.
Well, thank you all for joining. It's been
a pleasure talking with you all.
I'll give you all a a minute. If
you just wanna
plug anything, share anything anything that that may
be, feel free to do that now.
And then we'll wrap this up. I don't
wanna plug Fortainer at all. That just seem
that that that that seems seems shallow. But
so no. I I I think I think
the more people that get exposed to to
containers and Kubernetes and
realize that not everyone needs to be an
expert, the better. I think I think there
are varying levels of skill required,
and I think we need to be completely
comfortable that those in out there in the
ecosystem have varying level varying levels of skill
and embrace them and and have tools and
capabilities that that help check know, the the
the the chatty bitty conversation just seen as
a prime example. It it helps those,
you know, underskilled to do things that their
more skilled peers might be able to do.
So in anything anything that helps people, you
know, increase the skill level is is a
good thing. I'm gonna do a shameless plug
and ask people to go listen to the
Kubernetes podcast. We have David on it. That
was the last episode.
It was pretty cool to talk to to
to to you. But we have a bunch
of stuff coming up, very interesting things. We're
gonna be covering platform engineering and Backstage. It's
one of the topics. We're gonna be covering
Docker and Wasm as well, and we're gonna
be also covering KubeCon Amsterdam.
So we're gonna be asking people just harassing
people in the show, asking them, like, how
it's going on there.
So it's Kubernetespodcast.com
or you can follow us on Twitter. And,
yeah, thank you for having me. Was fantastic.
Suppose my plug would be my my team
at Scaleway, the developer relations team, we do
we do some livestreams
almost every Friday. Not this not this one
coming, but almost every Friday at 3PM UK
time. We go live and chitchat about the
cloud. Sometimes we have guests.
We just did a bunch of Kubernetes focus
streams during March.
So, you know, if this if that's your
jam, come and come and hang out with
us. You can find us on Twitter at
scale way underscore devs, and we always tweet
when we're going live. It'll be really good
to have folks come and harass us on
stream. Cool. Alright. Awesome.